As we continue with this study that we started a few weeks ago here on Wednesday evenings,
I've titled the series, The Danger of Deception.
Of course, in that first message, we took the time to review a number of verses throughout
the Word of God and understanding that we are living in an age of deception, and we
understand that God has given us the remedy for deception, and that is truth.
I'm thankful that we have the Word of God, and he said, sanctify them through thy Word.
Thy Word is truth.
And there's a whole, just a large group of people in our society, in our world, that
have been deceived, and they don't have truth.
They've been lied to, and I'm thankful that God has given us truth.
I'm thankful that we have the Word of God.
And this evening, as we look at this particular passage of Scripture, and really a single
verse of Scripture, as we'll use as a springboard into our message this evening, there's a phrase
that my understanding is that the phrase has been around for decades, however, it's just
been in the last 18 months that I have become familiar with this phrase.
It's a phrase that I was not really accustomed to hearing, and one in which we hear quite
frequently these days, and that is the phrase, social distancing.
And we, of course, understand that phrase.
In fact, we were driving yesterday, Joseph was with me, and there was a vehicle, and
on the back of the vehicle it said, social distancing, please keep your distance.
And he said, why do they have that on their car?
But it's a phrase that my understanding is it's been around for decades, but really,
I never had heard the phrase, at least not that, certainly not as often as I've heard
it in the last 18 months.
But I want to preach a message this evening from this thought in 1 Corinthians 15, and
I have titled the message, spiritual distancing.
You know, we get all caught up with this idea of social distancing, and we've heard it,
and we've heard it, and we've heard it, and the idea that those that have used this term
repeatedly is that you need to practice social distancing so that you are not infected by
some virus.
That's really the nutshell of what they're seeking to communicate through their phraseology
that has become so popular and so well-known in these days in which we live.
But I would submit to you that as the people of God, we need to be aware of the responsibility
and the importance of this idea of spiritual distancing, this idea of keeping ourselves
pure and keeping ourselves clean and keeping ourselves unspotted from the world.
We find in 1 Corinthians 15 and verse number 33, the verse that we'll use as our study
this evening, the Bible says this, be not deceived.
Again, we're dealing with the danger of deception, the age of deception in which we're living
in, and we understand that people are deceived.
We understand that there are folks that are seeking to deceive you.
They lay in wait to deceive, and here the Bible says, be not deceived.
Notice what it says, evil communications corrupt good manners.
The word evil carries with it the idea of being wicked or ungodly.
Communications here in this particular passage of Scripture, if you think about Old English,
it's carrying with it the idea of companionship or communion, relationships.
It's not simply speaking about some level of verbal communication where we might think
of this in this particular age today, but we understand he's speaking about these companionships,
communion, one with another, and it says this, be not deceived, evil communications, those
companionships with wicked or ungodly individuals.
Notice what it says, corrupt.
To deprave or to destroy, they corrupt good manners.
That which is good according to the Word is that which is fit or appropriate or virtuous.
The idea of manners is morals, or maybe we would use the word character.
To begin to understand this verse of Scripture, and he says, be not deceived, evil communications
corrupt good manners.
How many people have been deceived in this very portion of Scripture?
The warning that has been given, be not deceived, evil communications corrupt good manners.
Nope, they're not going to influence me.
Nope, they're not going to affect me.
I'm able to handle it.
The Bible says, be not deceived.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
I've said on a number of occasions over the years, as we've considered the context of
the church in Corinth, that they were living in a time in which the culture was influencing
the church.
God has always designed that the church influence the culture, but yet we find in Corinth that
it was the city of Corinth that was having a great impact and a great influence upon
the people of the church.
The reality is that even still today, far too often the culture is influencing the church.
And we have a responsibility to understand this age of deception in which we're living
in, and we understand that God has given us warnings, and he says evil communications
corrupt good manners.
Do we believe God or do we not?
Will we take heed to what God has said or will we not?
As we think about this verse of Scripture as the backdrop for the study this evening
with dealing with the subject of spiritual distancing, I want you to turn over to the
book of Psalms, if you will, and look at Psalm 106.
I want to read a few verses of Scripture to you from Psalm 106 as we would take an account
that is given to us of a historical event, the people of God, and what the effect was
of really this verse of Scripture from 1 Corinthians 15 where they did not take heed to the warning
that God had given them in the law, and this same thing can happen in our lives if we do
not take heed to the warning that God provides us with, that evil communications corrupt
good manners.
Pick it up with me in Psalm 106, look at verse number 34.
It says this,
They did not destroy the nations concerning whom the Lord commanded them, but were mingled
among the heathen, and learned their works, and they served their idols, which were a
snare unto them.
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils, and shed innocent blood,
even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols
of Canaan.
The land was polluted with blood.
Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a-whoring with their own inventions.
Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against His people, insomuch that He abhorred
His own inheritance.
Those are some sad verses of Scripture.
I want you to notice as we just kind of take these few verses, and I want you to focus
on some phrases in each of the verses of Scripture.
We find ourselves beginning in verse number 35.
Notice the phrase, they were mingled among the heathen.
The word mingled means to have fellowship with.
It was not a situation where we would look at what God says in John that we're in the
world but not of the world.
No doubt we come into contact with lost people.
In fact, we ought to desire to come into contact with lost people for the purpose of sharing
the gospel with them.
They need the light of the gospel.
If our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, 2 Corinthians chapter number 4.
So we must have some level of interaction with the lost community in order to seek to
reach them with the truth of the gospel.
But we understand that we're not having this fellowship with them as what is being described
here where they were mingled among the heathen, the unbelievers.
Notice in verse number 35 it says this, and learned their works.
How did they learn their works?
Because they were fellowshipping with them.
They were mingled with them, right?
So they mingled with the heathen.
They learned their works.
Notice verse 36, and they served their idols.
Wow.
Now, I wish I could interview the people of God, and if you could just for a moment
in a sanctified imagination, consider sitting down with these individuals and saying, did
you think that you would serve their idols?
I don't think that was the intent.
I don't think that's what they thought was going to happen when they got on that path.
But they mingled among the heathen.
They learned their works.
They served their idols.
It gets worse.
The Bible tells us in verses 37 and 38 that they sacrificed their sons and their daughters.
Can you imagine?
The Bible says, yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils and shed
innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed
unto the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood.
Wow.
Is that not tragic?
That's absolutely horrible.
It started in verse...
in v. 34 when they didn't obey God
in destroying the inhabitants,
but we see in v. 35
where they mingled among the heathen.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
And we find that they're mingling,
they're fellowshipping with the heathen
and they're learning their works
and they're serving their idols.
You understand that the inhabitants of the land,
it was very common that they would offer
their children to Molech,
a false god,
and now we find that the Bible says
that they sacrificed their sons and their daughters
unto devils.
False gods.
The land was polluted.
Notice v. 39,
thus, were they defiled.
They were defiled with their own works
and went to whoring with their own inventions.
And then we get to v. 40
and the Bible says, therefore,
as a result of those few verses
that we've just looked at,
and we find what has happened
and what has transpired in this terrible path,
this slippery slope, if you will,
that it says, therefore,
was the wrath of the Lord
kindled against His people,
insomuch that He abhorred His own inheritance.
Is that the therefore that you'd like in your life?
No way.
I don't want that.
I can avoid v. 40 and v. 39
and v. 38 and v. 37,
and I can avoid v. 36,
and I can avoid the end of v. 35
if I'm not mingling at the start of v. 35.
Correct?
That's how I'm avoiding it.
The way to avoid all of those consequences.
See, there are times in our lives
in which we think that we can operate
and we can behave
and we can have these relationships
and what have you,
and we think that we can have isolated situations
and we can control the consequences
and the circumstances,
but the reality is that those truths
that God has given us in His Word
stand and they are true.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
He starts the verse of Scripture by saying,
be not deceived.
So how can we be deceived in that?
Well, because we get our place as situated.
Well, they seem nice.
I mean, they talk this way, they this.
They're popular and I want to be popular.
And I understand that oftentimes
when we think about 1 Corinthians 15, 33,
we think of it in the context of children
or maybe even more specifically, teenagers.
And it's a verse of Scripture
that man, you can preach it at teen camp
and you can go to some Christian school chapel
and man, you can just go after 1 Corinthians 15, 33
and just help those young people understand.
But you understand that evil communications
corrupt good manners in adults as well,
in the workplace, in the neighborhood, right?
Those evil communications, they corrupt good manners.
This is a biblical truth.
And the Bible says, be not deceived.
I mentioned last Wednesday evening.
I think I said it was 1 Corinthians 11,
it's 1 Corinthians 10 and verse number 12
where the Bible says, let him that thinketh he stand
take heed lest he fall.
There are times no doubt in our lives
where we may look in a situation and say,
well, I can handle this.
Can you?
Can I?
We often tell our children and Holly probably more so
than I will tell our children,
it's not a situation where I don't trust you.
I don't trust the enemy, right?
And I don't trust the enemy
with this particular situation, why?
Because I've lived long enough
to know how the enemy operates a little bit, right?
We're not ignorant of his devices
is what Paul says to the church in Corinth
in 2 Corinthians.
And so we find this biblical truth.
They were warned in the Old Testament.
They were warned when they would enter
into the land of Canaan with regard
to how they were to behave and what they were to do
and not to have any fellowship
with the inhabitants of the land.
But yet we read here that they were mingled
among the heathen and no doubt the truth
that we're looking at in 1 Corinthians 15, 33
is seen in these verses of scripture
that evil communications corrupt good manners.
So what do we do?
How is it that we should respond to this warning?
Well, I used as our title for the message this evening,
playing on those words that we've become
so familiar with of social distancing
that we need to spiritually distance.
Spiritual distancing,
turn to the book of 2 Corinthians if you will.
We found ourselves in 1 Corinthians 15
where we find there that God is giving the warning
to the believers in Corinth,
be not deceived evil communications corrupt good manners.
When the second letter is written to the church in Corinth,
we come to the sixth chapter
and we find that the end of chapter number six
and the beginning of chapter number seven,
God gives a great discourse on the subject of separation
and the importance of separation.
The Bible says this in verse number 14
of 2 Corinthians 6,
be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers
for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness
and what communion hath light with darkness
and what concord hath Christ with Belial
or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel
and what agreement hath the temple of God with idols
for ye are the temple of the living God.
As God hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them
and I will be their God and they shall be my people.
Wherefore come out from among them
and be ye separate saith the Lord
and touch not the unclean thing
and I will receive you and will be a father unto you
and you shall be my sons and daughters
saith the Lord Almighty.
Verse one of chapter seven,
having therefore these promises
and by the way, they're wonderful promises.
I will receive you, will be a father unto you,
you shall be my sons and daughters saith the Lord Almighty
having therefore these promises dearly beloved,
let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh
and spirit perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
Verse 17, wherefore come out from among them
and be separate saith the Lord.
This idea of spiritual distancing,
this idea of I don't wanna be tainted by the world.
We do not desire to be influenced by
and to have the world influencing us
in our walk with God and saying,
well, you know, it's different now
and things are different and so on and so forth.
No, be not deceived.
We don't wanna go down that path.
We don't wanna end up where the children of Israel did
in verse 36 and 37 and 38 and 39 and 40 in Psalm 106.
No, we wanna avoid that.
So therefore we do not wanna be mingled among the heathen.
We find that the Bible tells us
that we're to keep ourselves unspotted from the world.
I'm thankful that the word of God cleanses
and we understand that we live in the world
to mention what Jesus said once again in John 17
that we're in the world, but we're not of the world.
And that's a blessing and we're thankful.
Listen, he has us here for a purpose,
but we need to be careful
that we're not being tainted by the world,
that we're not being spotted by the world,
that we're not being influenced by the world,
that the deceivers that lay in wait,
the many deceivers that lay in wait,
that we're careful as to our associations,
as to those with whom we're having these relationships,
these companionships and this level of communion with, why?
Because those evil communications will corrupt good manners.
And so we must be careful.
We must understand this principle of separation.
We must understand, listen, again,
as we would use the phraseology that we've heard
and become accustomed with in the last 18 months
with this idea of social distancing.
You know, people have taken that
and they've been serious about it.
A number of people have.
I mean, someone shared a story with me
just in the last week where they were in a particular place
and they were having a hard time hearing the individual.
The individual's having a hard time hearing them
and they got a little closer and it was like,
I mean, it was alarms going off.
It was, no, don't get close, you know, so on and so forth.
And they have believed
and they are practicing and serious about,
but I just wonder if the people of God would be serious
about this idea of spiritual distancing.
I don't wanna have the influence of the world.
I don't wanna have the influence of the heathen,
of ungodly individuals, of wicked, evil individuals.
No, I don't want that influence.
I need to be careful.
I need to practice this thing of separation.
There are some times in the life of a believer
that we have to say no.
There's some things that we just can't do.
Amen.
There's some places we shouldn't go.
We sing with the kids.
There's a great change since I've been born again, right?
The places I used to go, I don't go there anymore.
The things I used to say, I don't say them anymore.
The so on and so forth.
And we sing round after round after round with the kids.
Why?
Because there's been a great change
since I've been born again.
Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord.
What concord, what communion hath Christ with Belial?
The reality of that passage of Scripture
gives us the great contrast between light and darkness
and so on and so forth,
and we find that we are to be separate.
That's how we respond to a warning
when the Bible says be not deceived.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Look at Psalm 1, if you will.
It's a familiar passage of Scripture.
In fact, there are a number of people
in our auditorium this evening,
who quote the entirety of Psalm 1.
I want you to understand even as we think
about this thought tonight of spiritual distancing
and this truth of be not deceived,
evil communications corrupt good manners,
notice what the psalmist says to begin Psalm 1.
In verse number 1,
Blessed is the man that walketh not
in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners,
nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.
You know how you avoid sitting in the seat of the scornful?
You don't stand in the way of sinners.
You know how you don't stand in the way of sinners?
You don't walk in the counsel of the ungodly.
Amen.
And so he says,
Blessed is the man that walketh not
in the counsel of the ungodly nor standeth
in the way of sinners,
nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.
And in order for me to avoid sitting in that seat,
then I'm not going to stand with those individuals.
I'm not going to walk in the counsel of the ungodly.
The truth of separation.
We also find that our response to the warning
is not only one of separation,
but I believe also as we look here in Psalm 1,
it is the truth of delighting in his word.
Delighting in his word.
See, we must embrace the truth
that God has given us in his word.
When he says,
be not deceived, evil communications corrupt good manners,
he's giving us a warning.
But you know, unfortunately there are times in our lives,
no doubt each and every one of us could say
that I did not take heed to a warning that was given.
We understand that.
We can read stories and share accounts
of individuals that did not take heed to warning
and it ended up tragic.
Tragic results and responses
because of their lack of taking heed to a warning.
God has given us this warning
and we must delight in his word.
We must understand that his word has been given to us
and it is profitable.
It's interesting and I don't want you to turn back there,
but in Psalm 106, when we read all of that
in verses 34 through 40,
how that they were mingled among the heathen,
that they learned their work, served their idols,
sacrificed their sons and their daughters.
They were defiled and therefore the wrath of the Lord
was kindled against his people.
We find that in verse number 24,
so just several verses before we read
that portion of Scripture.
You know what the Bible tells us in that verse of Scripture?
They believed not his word.
In Psalm 106 and verse number 24,
they believed not his word.
There are times in which we behave
in a manner in which we're really saying
we don't believe what God told us in his word.
I don't believe that evil communications
are gonna corrupt good manners
because I really wanna be accepted
and I wanna be part of the group at work
or whatever it might be and it's not gonna happen to me.
How many people have said that over the years?
And then they fall prey, they fall victim
to whatever that particular situation is.
And so the Bible tells us in Psalm 106 verse 24
before you ever even get to those things
that they did not, they believed not his word.
We ought to delight in the word of God.
Notice what the psalmist says in Psalm 1 and verse 2.
But his delight is in the law of the Lord.
And in his law doth he meditate day and night.
As a result of his delight and his devotion,
his meditation in the word of God day and night,
the Bible says the result of that
is that he shall be like a tree
that's planted by the rivers of waters
that bringeth forth his fruit in the season.
His leaf also shall not wither
and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.
That sounds really good.
Amen?
Those are the kind of results that we want in our lives
in verse number two.
We don't want those results that we read of in Psalm 106
nor do we want what the Bible says about the ungodly
or not so at the end of Psalm 1.
We must delight in his word, we must have that devotion.
By the way, as we've studied this for now just a few weeks,
this subject matter of the danger of deception
and understanding that we live in the age
or an age of deception,
that we understand that regularly
we're coming back to this truth
that the remedy for the deception
is the knowledge of God's word.
When I'm delighting in the law of the Lord,
when I'm taking and I'm meditating,
I'm having that devotion life that I'm supposed to have
and I'm embracing the truth
that God has given me in his word,
that is going to help me to combat the deception
that is so prevalent in our society today.
Nope, I'm not gonna be deceived by that, why?
Because I have God's truth.
And when I have truth and I know truth
and I'm familiar with truth,
then when those lies come and that deception comes,
I'm able to stand upon the truth that God has given me.
And the answer is delighting in the law of the Lord.
It's a simple verse of Scripture
in 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 33.
Be not deceived.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
I don't wanna have fellowship with,
companionship with those that are ungodly or wicked
that would cause me to have my character
that is fit or appropriate or virtuous
to be destroyed or depraved.
So therefore, I better take heed to the warning.
Be not deceived.
We read those verses of Scripture
or those words in Scripture
and it's almost like God giving us
this big neon warning sign, right?
When you preface something with be not deceived.
It's actually kind of interesting in the Greek
and I'm not a Greek scholar by any stretch of the imagination
I don't use Greek very often in messages
but it's interesting that the word for deceive
in that verse of Scripture is the first and third word
in 1 Corinthians 15, 33.
And so it's really a just kind of smacking in the face
on this subject of deception.
And so be not deceived.
Maybe this evening there's some areas in our lives
that we evaluate under the warning that God has given us
and desire to take and practice
some spiritual distancing in our lives.
The term social distancing, again, unfamiliar to me
though it had been around for decades
is my understanding through a quick research.
I wonder if the term spiritual distancing
could have as much of an impact in our lives
as social distancing did several months ago.
You say, you know what?
There's just some places I can't go
as a person, as a child of God.
There's just some associations I just can't have.
Why?
Because I don't wanna have my good manners corrupted
and I'm going to take heed to the warning
that God has given.
Be not deceived.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Let's pray.
Father, thank you for the warning
that you give us in your word.
As we look at the example of your people
as it's recorded in Psalm 106,
it's tragic, it's unfortunate.
I believe if they could stand before us this evening,
they never imagined that it would end the way that it did.
When they started to mingle amongst the heathen,
the fellowship with them, the ungodly,
they did not believe that it would result
in learning their works and serving their idols
and sacrificing their children
and having your wrath against them.
Lord, I pray tonight in this age of deception
in which we're living in,
you'd help us to take heed to the warning.
We'd evaluate our lives individually
and with your help, determine if there's some changes
that need to be made,
some spiritual distancing in our lives
as we desire to please you and honor you and glorify you.
I pray that you'd bless our time of prayer.
We thank you for the privilege of prayer.
We pray that you'd be glorified.
For it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.
Does anyone need a prayer bulletin this evening?
You did not.